If you are new to TypeScript or want to learn typescript, this post will help to clear your concepts before 
jumping to write code in Typescript.

# Dynamic Typing And Static Typing  

In the static typing, you specify the type of variable explicitly like in the following code written in c++ 

```
char text  = 'Hello' ;
text = 2    // it will throw an error because type of name variable is string.

```
The benefit of static type language is that type checking is performed during compile time. 
It will fail to compile until the error is fixed.
On the other hand, In the Dynamic type language ( javascript is more flexible, you don't need to specify the type explicitly it will check on during the runtime but it can lead to issues at runtime. 

## What is TypeScript?

 > TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript.
```
const text:string = "Hello " ;
console.log(text)
``` 
Generated by typeScript :
```
const text = "Hello";
console.log(text);
```
JavaScipt is a dynamic type language as we discussed above it can't perform type 
checking during compile time. So here typescript came into the picture, to provide static 
type-checking to your JavaScript code at the compile time. 



## Why TypeScript?

 By Using TypeScript developers can catch bugs while writing JavaScript code
Lets see following function below 

```
function sum(x,y){
return x+y;
}

const result = sum(2,4) // output will be 6

``` 
there is sum function that adds two numbers and returns the result. Here Result will be 6 , there nothing 
wrong here but if we pass string as argument in sum function 
```
function (x,y)
{
return x+y;
}
 const result = sum('type','script'); // output will be typescript

```
what will happen here is that when we were passing 2 and 4 the above sum function giving 6 but if we pass 'type' and 'script' in sum function , it will concatenate the string result will be typescript but we only want function to summ only interger value how we do it ? we can do by adding types into parentheses 

```
function ( x:number , y:number )
{
return x+y;
}
 const result = sum('type','script');
 console.log(result ); 

``` 
Now it will only accept only numbers as types if we pass call sum with string value it will throw an 
error.

## Assigning Types 

### Primitive Data Types

```
const name : string = 'Mukul' ;
const result : number = 2;  

```
In the Above code snippet name and result will accept only string and number ;

### Non Primitve Data Types

**Objects**

```
const user = {
     id:'das122',
    name:'Mukul',
    marks :098
}
```
in the above code snippet if we want to make this object type Safe we can do this like
```
const user {
id:string,
name:string,
marks:number
}

```
**Array**

```
const fruits: string[] = ['Apple', 'Orange', 'Banana'] ; 

```


**Functions**
```
function add(x,y){
return x+y
}

```
we wrote a function add which take two number and return the result. Now we will make this function 
to accept only numbers and return the result in the number type ;

```
function add ( x:number , y : number ):number{
return x+y;
}
```
Now, this function is type-safe. If we call this function with string , it will throw an error and 
return result only in number;

That's Enough for this blog guys, this is my first blog please share your feedback. In the  next part
we will discuss about Union, Any And Type Alias .















 




